# Optimization-Algorithms

This is one of my projects from Algorithm Design (INFSCI 2591) course at School of Information Sciences (iSchool), University of Pittsburgh. 

The objectives of this project are: 
     
     (a) To design and implement optimization algorithms (greedy and dynamic programming) and 
     (b) To design and implement algorithms using different data structures.

# Data Structures

In this project I designed and implemented Dijkstra’s algorithm and Floyd’s algorithm to compute all-pair shortest paths in any given graph. I implemented 6 programs: 

3 programs for Dijkstra’s algorithm (each program with one of the 3 data structures below) and 3 programs for Floyd’s algorithm (each program with one of the 3 data structures below).

1. An adjacency matrix using a two-dimensional array.
2. An adjacency list using a linked list.
3. An adjacency matrix using a one-dimensional array for storing only the elements of the lower triangle in the adjacency matrix.

# Input

The input to the 6 programs are connected, undirected, and weighted graphs. These programs can find shortest paths on two types of connected, undirected, and weighted graphs: 
      
     complete graph (a graph with a link between every pair of nodes) and 
     sparse graph (a graph with exactly n-1 links). 
     
To prepare graphs as inputs to these 6 programs, my project includes these additional programs (functions) as follows:

1. Random. A program to randomly generate a number between 1 and n. I used a random number generator function using libraries.
2. Complete. A program that can create an adjacency matrix for an undirected complete graph with any given size n.
3. Sparse. A program that can create an adjacency matrix for an undirected sparse graph with any given size n. The Sparse program uses the Random program (number 1 in this list) to determine all the links (n-1) in the sparse graph.
4. Weight. Included weights on the links of the undirected complete graphs (generated by the Complete program, number 2 in this list) and on the links of the undirected sparse graphs (generated by the Sparse program, number 3 in this list), used the Random program (number 1 in this list) to generate positive numbers as weights.


Any questions regarding the source code, idea, implementation etc. can be routed to me.

Sai Rakesh Ghanta

    sairghan@gmail.com
    sag163@pitt.edu
    pitt.edu/~sag163
    
Professor:

Hassan Karimi

    hkarimi@sis.pitt.edu
    http://gis.sis.pitt.edu/
